All right, thanks for having me and

thanks for that introduction. It's been

a while since I saw the the movie

trailer. Um, so today I thought I'd um

talk about um some of the uh keys to

creating a a unicorn. Uh does everyone

here kind of know what a unicorn is now?

Sort of this um Yeah. So basically uh

there's a good article in in TechCrunch

recently um talking about um about um

the probabilities of creating you know

startups creating a billion dollar

company and they were rare enough that

um the author sort of label them

unicorns. Um probably the most

frequently asked question I get asked by

um entrepreneurs is you know what it

takes to create a a successful startup.

What what would be considered a good

startup idea? or they ask me to evaluate

their specific idea and this is the

mental model that that I use um is what

I'm going to talk about uh today. So

what does it for succeed and as part of

that I want to talk about the problem of

distribution which is how people find

out about your product. Um and then I'm

going to sort of tie things together by

answering the question um what was in

the water at at PayPal? Why why did

PayPal spawn so many successful um

companies? There are um seven uh

unicorns have been founded by um by

PayPal sort of the PayPal mafia group

which is the the um group of people who

um were part of PayPal before it was um

acquired by eBay. And there were only

about um 220 people in that group. So um

statistically it's been this um you know

really unusual thing that a relatively

few number of people in Silicon Valley

have created so many valuable companies.

I want to talk about why that might be

the case.

Um, so to my mental model, um, this is

sort of what I run through when somebody

presents me with with an idea. So, you

know, start at the top of this funnel

and you've got a founder who, um, has an

idea, um, but it's still sort of in in

the realm of of fantasy. They're hoping

it can be a billion-dollar idea. And I

kind of run it through these filters.

So, the first thing I kind of ask is, is

there a market need? Um the raise on

detr of every entrepreneur is to figure

out um some need that isn't being

addressed by the current market. And

this isn't exactly easy because um

markets aren't totally inefficient. So

there's a lot of existing companies

addressing needs. And so to figure out

something that isn't properly being

addressed is um is non-trivial. Um, you

know, I think one of the the tricky

things about um discovering markets is

that is that it it can neither be too

small nor too big. And um let me kind of

explain what I mean on on the too small

side. I once had um an entrepreneur

pitched me this idea for um for a new

auction site that would use videos of

the product. And I said, "Well, wait,

that's basically eBay, but instead of

photos, you're using videos." And

they're like, "Well, yeah, but videos

are a lot better than photos." And I

said, "Well, that might be the case, but

you haven't really discovered a market

need." That that amount of

differentiation is not sufficient to

really create a new uh a new site and

and disrupt eBay. That would be an

example of something being too small. I

think you see this sort of um problem

quite a bit where the innovation is just

too incremental to really um truly be

addressing a sort of a market need that

the market for that is just going to be

too small. On the other side of it um a

market can be too big. So, I think one

of the the um problems with that

happened with the whole kind of clean

tech um boom is that um is that they

were trying to disrupt the energy space

which was just so big that fracking came

out of nowhere and um and um and um and

basically almost like um stole that

opportunity. And so most of the clean

tech companies um have not worked. And

so there's this problem that if your

market is too vast that um or if you've

defined it to be too vast, there's going

to be too much competition and too many

unforeseen things can happen. And so you

you almost want the market to be

discreet um something that you can get a

foothold very quickly but then you can

expand it um over time. And so the the

classic example would be um something

like Facebook where its initial market

was Harvard. Uh within two weeks it had

completely taken over Harvard. Then it

expanded to the Ivy League. Then it

expanded to all colleges and

universities. Then it took over the

whole world. And so ideally what you

want is for your initial market to be

something you can win. It's small enough

that you can win it and yet it's still a

meaningful market. Uh that can then you

can kind of expand um what you're doing

to um to to do something um bigger and

bigger and and so those types of

combinations are are sort of difficult

to

find. Um once you sort of have an idea

of what your market need is, um you you

you develop the product. And the thing I

look for for a product is what I call

the the hook, which is a simple

interaction that users will believably

engage in. So sometimes I see

entrepreneurs who've got this great idea

for a market. They they they have

pointed out it's a market that's

inefficient, but they haven't been able

to productize that insight into

something that I believe people will

actually use. The product is too

complicated. It doesn't immediately

engage people. And really, what you're

looking for here is a simple behavior

that users will repeatedly engage in.

So, it could be the tweet, right? It's a

simple status update or it's, you know,

the um the you push a button and a town

car shows up. And um and that sort of um

uberification now, which is the sort of

um creating push button um interfaces

that do one thing. It's I think it's

even more um sort of important design

principle now in the age of mobile. Um

you know, the the problem with designing

um a site that doesn't have a have a

hook is that it's very hard to get users

to engage in more complicated behaviors

if you can't get them to engage in a

simple behavior. Um, and so

complexifying your product and adding a

whole lot of bells and whistles won't

necessarily improve it if there's not

like a core behavior um that that users

are willing to engage in. Now, sometime

sometimes you'll get products that the

hook is just explosive and and even to

the point where the entrepreneurs didn't

even know what their market need was.

They just built this product. Um, I

mean, Twitter was kind of like that

where it just took off. Um, I'm not sure

that the the creators knew exactly

they'd be disrupting the news industry

or sort of taking that over. Um, but

they felt like people would use the

product. And I think that's um also a

very sound way to go that you can sort

of, you know, given a choice between a

founder who's discovered a market need

versus one that has a great product

hook. Um, I would rather take the

product hook even if it means that they

still have to figure out what market

they're actually disrupting. Um and this

is why um you know entrepreneurial types

tend not to be the um super analytical

um sort of um it it it's not like a it's

not necessarily the McKenzie consultants

or the Harvard MBAs who figure out these

new markets. It's the more, you know,

eclectic, idiosyncratic entrepreneurs

who who figure this stuff out because

they're able to actually build a product

that that has a hooking and gets

traction, which I think is very

frustrating to kind of the um the people

who would like this process to be more

tracked and and sort of um analytical,

but I think it's it's worth keeping that

in mind. So on once you have sort of a a

product hook and a market need, you've

got product market fit, you know, which

is sort of that um allimportant concept.

Um but but I don't think that product

market fit is um is sort of the entirety

of what you need to build a billion

dollar company. I think there's two

other things that that you really

need. Um so the third one is is a

scalable distri distribution model. Um

again distribution is the question of

how do people find and discover use your

product. Um it could be sales, it could

be um SEO, it could be um using um

friend viral using Facebook's platform

to go viral in the feed. Um it could be

uh what I would call real world virality

where you share uh an Uber with somebody

and now that person has discovered Uber

and they will use it. Um, so this idea

of how do you quickly scale, how do you

have a technique that gets you to to

scale is is very important. And what's I

think tricky about this is um what I

would call the the law of distribution

arbitrage, which is

that successful distribution techniques

are copied until they are no longer

unusually effective. Okay. So if you

think about um SEO, the first people to

use that technique um got a lot of

traffic from Google. Then a whole bunch

of people started doing it and they

started gaming the system and then

eventually Google did their notorious

Panda release and everyone who was using

SEO basically lost most of that traffic

and the rug was pulled out from under

them. If you look at like Facebook

platform, um the friend virality was

very very powerful in the early days and

then eventually people got sick of the

spam and they stopped paying attention

to it. Uh if you look at kind of the

early days of social networks, all of

them used an address book importer and

would blast your whole, you know, email

address book. Uh and that worked until

people stopped clicking on the invites.

And so the the techniques that work

initially to get distribution do not

they don't stay working, I guess. And

the reason is because everyone copies

them until they're the channels are just

spammed to death. And so what this means

is that typically if you're going to

have a breakout startup, you've really

got to think about how you're going to

innovate on distribution, not just

product, right? And the the biggest

mistake I see these days that um I see

brilliant startup founders who are

brilliant product people and they've

really thought about their product, but

they haven't really thought about how

they're going to make it grow. And then

they launch their product and it's like

crickets chirping. No one no one's using

it and they're kind of flumx as to what

to do because they've never really spent

time thinking about it and they just

kind of assume that hey if you build a

good product everyone's going to find

it. And the reality is it's a big web

out there and um that's not necessarily

true. You really have to think about how

people are going to get to it. And you

know one of the issues here is that is

that um you know I'm pretty impatient. I

think people who invest VCs are pretty

impatient. I mean, you kind of have

about five, six years or so to build a

billion dollar company or people kind of

assume that um it's not going to happen

and it'll be hard for you to raise

money. It'll be hard for you to recruit

um talent and and so on down the line.

And so, you know, if you're going to

build that much value in such a short

amount of time, you've got to have some

really unusually effective way of

getting lots of users really fast. Um

and when you just think about the fact

that um that users resist being you know

new ways of acquiring them they sort of

get enerured to all the ways that uh you

try to get their attention. Uh this

really raises I think the difficulty. Um

the the one that I the technique that I

like the best is um is virality. So all

the products that I've been part of

creating whether it's PayPal gener all

had a viral dimension to them. Um but

virality

uh in terms of just doing this whole

sort of invite your friend address book

importer virality doesn't work anymore.

I mean people are sick of filling out

invite forms. There has to be something

in it for the inviter or the recommener.

So thinking about their motivation and

why they would do do this why they would

invite a friend or or business colleague

or something like that is is critical.

You know, at Yammer, we were one of the

first companies to make enterprise

software viral. And because that had

never really been done before, we were

able to get tremendous traction in the

enterprise. I'm not sure those same

techniques would work today because

enough people have now copied Yammer's

distribution technique that it might not

be as effective five years five years

later. So, something to really keep in

mind. Then there's there's one more

thing. So, if this wasn't challenging

enough, um, you've got a product that's

got product market fit. You've also

figured out scalable distribution

techniques, so it's growing really fast.

There's just really one more thing you

have to figure out, which is how do you

create a moat around your business. Um,

one of the problems with software,

creating software, is that it's very

easy to copy. And I don't mean pirate.

I'm not saying anyone steals your code.

I'm just saying anybody can look at your

UI and basically reverse engineer their

own version of your product. And

um believe me this will if you get any

measure of success if you create a pro

uh a product that gets any kind of

product market fit or distribution

within months you will have um people

copying you whether it's sort of the

European version of your product

launched by the Samour brothers or some

big company takes notice and puts what

you're doing on their their road map

somebody's going to notice and start

copying what what you're doing. Um, you

know, within months of launching PayPal,

Genie and Yammer, we had sort of um

copycats, including really big

companies. In the case of Yammer with

with Salesforce, it took them about 18

months to um to launch their product.

Um, which sounds like a long time, but

they also have um a lot more um sales

and marketing muscle behind their

product than we did. And so even though

it was 18 months delayed behind us and

um the product wasn't as good um they

already had an existing customer base

and a huge army of salespeople and a

huge marketing budget and we didn't have

any of those things. And so the question

is how are you going to compete against

the inevitable um copycats, clones,

competitors and and big companies who

wake up to the idea once you've taught

the market that um it was it was

lacking. Um, and so I think the key here

is there's a number of different

techniques. I mean, obviously probably

the best one is is network effects of

some kind. You know, you've got like a

two or three-sided marketplace here. And

so it's very very hard. You can copy the

product, but you can't copy the the

network of of people who started using

it. You can't copy the community. Um,

maybe there's some um I like this less,

but there could be some technical

barrier that's just extremely difficult

to to copy. So if you take look at like

Dropbox um you would think that um

desktop sync would have been copied a

long time ago. But it was actually such

a technically difficult problem to get

that to get the usability of it so

perfect the way that Dropbox did that

that that um barrier has proven to be

pretty pretty enduring. And then there's

sort of this um this sort of um network

effect that comes about through sharing.

So again, I think that's sort of the

fourth thing to think about is just how

do you make your product non-copyable?

How do you make it defensible? And I

don't want to make this too depressing

because I think it's like almost

impossible to figure out these four

things Xanti before you you launch your

product. If you can just think about the

first three, I think you're in pretty

good shape. And quite frankly, if you

can figure out your product hook and a

scalable distribution model, you can

figure out everything else later. you

can figure out actually you may not even

have total clarity about the market

you're disrupting but you'll learn that

over time and you may not have figured

out how to build your moat but you'll

figure that out but you do need I think

a pretty clear idea of what your product

hook is going to be and um and how to

scale distribution once you do those

four things you will have a billion

dollar company um no fast growing um

product that has a real market behind it

and can't easily be copied in Silicon

Valley doesn't achieve a billion dollar

valuation

So that gets me to bonus points, what I

would call bonus billions, which is if

you can create a product with

adjacencies, then you will not just have

a billion dollar company, you could have

a 10 billion or hundred billion dollar

plus company. And and an adjacency are

markets that are very closely adjacent

to yours. Um, and your product gives you

tremendous leverage into moving into

those markets. So it's very hard for um

even an existing company that's

successful to move into doing new

things. But sometimes your existing

product gives you the capability and the

leverage, the assets to do that. And so

if you think about like the classic

example would be um with Microsoft um

when you think about the synergy that um

that Windows gave them into winning sort

of the office productivity um space. uh

classic adjacency probably double the

value of the company. Um if you think

about um you know companies like um like

Facebook when you think about the power

of the social graph the leverage the

opportunities the option value that that

gives them to move into closely related

spaces um it's very powerful that's what

makes I think a company go from you know

a billion to 10 billion or 100 billion

is that there's a lot of sort of options

um for the company to move into um to

adjacent markets and um expand what

they're

So that's my framework. Um, you know,

that's kind of what I run through when

an entrepreneur shows me their product

or or, um, pitches me their their idea.

And, um, I think, you know, it drives,

um, you know, um, other investors may

not have this framework quite this

formalized, but I think a lot of these

are are factors in in their thinking as

well.

So, I want to I'll I'm going to end with

sort of this question, then I'm going to

open it up to to you guys to to ask

questions. what was in the water at

PayPal. And I think one of the really

key things was that PayPal innovated not

just on product but on distribution as

well. And so this goes to my my point

earlier. Um PayPal was one of the first

products to use a viral strategy. So you

could email money to somebody even if

they didn't have a PayPal account and

then they would get an email saying

click here to get your money. And then

when they click they would sign up. And

so the product was sort of viral from

from day one.

We were one of the first uh products to

use a platform strategy. So this is

really before the days before web

platforms existed. Um you know we eBay

we kind of turned eBay into an

involuntary platform for our

application. So we we we did all these

things to kind of bootstrap ourselves

off of an existing platform which is you

know a great tactic for getting

distribution. you go somewhere where uh

where the users already are and um and

in this case um PayPal was able to get

this kind of explosive growth by um by

bootstrapping off of eBay. At the time,

eBay called us a parasite. You know,

they didn't like the fact that we were

this um application on their platform. I

think uh but remember this was in like

the early 2000s. I think circa 2006

Facebook changed everything by launching

a platform for for web apps. And I think

that changed the psychology of the whole

industry and big web companies started

thinking of themselves as um platforms

or potential platforms and that

therefore kind of um derivative activity

or applications was actually something

to be encouraged not suppressed. And so

today, um, there's a whole host of of

platforms for for you to choose from in

terms of of getting bootstrapped, uh,

that are going to be much more, um, sort

of friendly uh, to your application than

than um, sort of eBay was was to pay

PayPal before before we ultimately sold

the company to them. And then I think

the third the third sort of tactic that

we used um, and this sort of goes along

with the second one is is we were one of

the first companies to use embed. So,

you could actually embed a PayPal

payment logo or a payment form um on

your website or auction and that would

drive um users back to to um PayPal. And

again, this is very common place today.

Um but back in the early 2000s, this was

like a really um new technique. Um and

it was one that I think some other

PayPal mafia companies were able to use

very effectively, most notably uh

YouTube. So if you think about the way

that YouTube embedded videos on MySpace

and and other sites in the early days

and that's what really rocketed it. Um

that's that was a technique that uh was

sort of pioneered at at PayPal. And so

you know again all of these techniques

today are are commonplace but in the

early 2000s we were one of the first

companies to do them. And um and I think

again that innovativeness that we were

innovating not just on product but on

distribution as well is um something

that all the PayPal mafia companies h

have done. You know it's it's

interesting to compare you know I

mentioned that there's about um there

were about 220 sort of pre IPO um PayPal

uh people here in in management um and

they produced seven sort of post PayPal

unicorns. If you look at a company like

Google, which has something like 20,000

employees, literally 100 times more

employees, um there aren't seven sort of

unicorns created by ex x ex googers. And

um you know, it's a really interesting

question why. I mean, it's basically I

think there's maybe one or two sort of

ex Google um unicorn type companies and

um even though they had a hundred times

more employees. And I think one of I I

think this sort of scrappiness around

distribution is a big part of the

explanation. When you work at a big

company, distribution is guaranteed,

right? I mean, Google already has

hundreds of millions of users. And so

when you think about creating a product

at Google, I mean, Google understands

hits and misses. I mean, they understand

good products versus bad products. But

the one thing they really don't have to

pay tremendous attention to is this

problem of you're an entrepreneur

working in a small team with very few

resources, right? I mean, the one thing

they have are tons of resources, tons of

users, and you've got to figure out from

zero, how do I get my first user? How do

I get the second user? How does that

grow to 10 users? How does that go to

100? Then a thousand, then a million.

They never have to think about that.

They've got guaranteed distribution of

half a billion users. And so I think

that scrainess about distribution is one

of the key reasons um that that um that

there's been sort of so many kind of

PayPal mafia companies. I think it's

interesting thing to to think about as

you guys uh create your own startups. So

with that I will um open up to

questions.

Sure. So the question was um about embed

strategy. So um an embed is um it's this

simple little line of of JavaScript that

some third party can um can embed in

their in their site or their blog or

their um eBay auction. And what PayPal

did is we gave people that little

snippet of of code and so they could

just append it to their eBay auctions

and that would create a PayPal logo and

drive traffic back to our site so people

could complete the payment. There's

quite a bit you can do with this stuff.

It doesn't just have to be like a logo.

It can be a form of some kind. So, I

think we when we got more elaborate with

it, we actually let you enter the dollar

amount

um of the transaction in the form and

then you click submit and it would kick

you over to a a PayPal payment form

where you could complete the

transaction. Um so, if you think about

like the YouTube example, YouTube gives

you this snippet of code. If you put

that on your blog, it'll display the

auction in line. So, it's a way to

essentially create inline distribution

for your product.

Um, you know, the value of it is that if

you can get third parties to copy and

paste um that snippet into their sites,

you drive awareness of your distribution

throughout the web. Um, now I guess I

should say that this is a tactic that

works best on the web. I mean, it's

really a

browserbased tactic. I don't think this

works in the new world of applications.

Um, and this is what I mean by saying

that a lot of the techniques that worked

10 years ago or even five years ago or

maybe even one or two years ago won't

work today. You have to constantly

innovate new stuff. So for instance,

SEO. SEO was something that worked for

many years, but today because of the

shift to mobile, people don't really

search the same way. Um, so you're very

unlikely to get meaningful SEO traffic.

I mean, it's it's something that's nice,

but I don't think by itself, if someone

came to me today and their distribution

strategy was SEO, I would say that's not

going to cut

it. There was a time when it would cut

it, right? So, Yelp got tremendous

distribution initially off SEO.

Hello. Thank you for being here. I want

to ask about the product hook. Mhm. Can

you elaborate a little bit more on this?

What was the hook in Yammer and in Po

like the initial one or did you pivot it

and make another hook? How how can you

figure out what hook to use? Right. So,

so the question is um what was the hook

with PayPal and Yammer and how do you

figure out what what hook to use? Yes.

Um I I think so let me talk about PayPal

and Yammer first. So, with PayPal, it

was simply having a payment form where

you address a dollar amount to an email

address, enter your credit card, and

click submit. And I believed that that

was an interaction that users would

engage with. Um, so to me, it's all

about I mean, again, we're evaluating an

idea before it's launched. Um, once it

launches, you can just see whether it

gets traction or not. But before it

launches, the question I ask myself is,

is this believable? Will users actually

engage in this? Um, and frankly that

comes down to um, a lot of product

intuition. Um, you know, fundamentally

founders need to be good product people

and that just means having intuitions

about what users will actually do and it

comes from looking at what people are

doing on other sites. So on for Yammer,

the product hook was simply a little

status update form that said, what are

you working on? So uh, we had this idea

for enterprise social networking. Our

fundamental belief was that social

networking wouldn't just stay in the

consumer space, that employees would

want to use this tool at work as well.

But we had to figure out what the right

incarnation was of that idea, like what

was the right product took. And um once

Twitter launched in mid 2007, that was a

huge um lesson for us because it showed

how simple social could be. It was

really just about posting into a feed.

And I didn't think, for instance, that

people would be willing to create like

the um sort of a corporate Facebook in

the early days with all the bells and

whistles, not as a hook. I thought we

could get people over time to build

that, which they did, but I thought that

it wasn't a hook. And once Twitter

launched and they sort of had that

status update, um I thought just asking

the simple question, what are you

working on? was enough of a hook because

pe enough people would fill that out

that all of a sudden your feed is

populated with content and that makes

the site interesting enough for

everybody else who's coming to the site

and that gets them to contribute content

and then they'll fill out their profiles

and then you've got an enterprise social

network. So you start with a simple

behavior and then you can layer stuff on

top of that. Um and again it's it's um

you know it kind of comes down to um

will users

um realistically want to do this? you

know, it's hard to get users to do

anything, you know, as you guys know.

So, keep it simple and then if there's

precedence for users engaging this type

of behavior elsewhere on the web, it's

very

helpful.

Who's point? Yeah. Oh, whoever's got the

mic. Yeah. Hello. Um, I have a question

concerning um copying. I'm from Germany

and like um 95% I think of startups that

are copied in the US, right? and I

wanted to hear what your take on that is

and yeah

um elaborate. Yeah. Well, I think it's

it's basically just a fact of life that

um you know

um that sort of imitation is the best

form of flattery that if you do

something interesting or successful,

there's going to be no shortage of

people trying to sort of copy it. And um

and so therefore, it's incumbent upon

you as a startup founder to figure out

what makes your idea non-copyable. I

mean, I just kind of take it as a fact

of life. I don't I'm not I'm not

intending to like criticize anyone who's

doing this. Um I do think that

um for you guys, it's better to think

about original ideas. Um now, you can be

inspired by things other people are

doing. So for instance, you know,

clearly in creating Yammer, we were

influenced by both what Facebook and

Twitter had done on the consumer side,

but at least that was really I mean

enterprise and consumer are two

different markets and we really kind of

started with learning what they had done

and then tried to port it over to the

enterprise in a um enterprise friendly

way. So I don't think if you want to be

successful, you can just be completely

derivative. You have to innovate

somewhere. Um, but I guess my point here

is once you have figured out your

innovation, you also have to figure out

how to make sure that other people don't

um, copy you to death. And um, and you

know, like especially if you're selling

your product, so like if you're doing

enterprise software and everyone starts

um, creating a version of your product

and giving away for free, what's going

to allow you to maintain your pricing

pressure? So um so it's it's a

particularly acute problem if you plan

on charging uh for for your product is

what's going to allow you because you

know a lot of software wants to be free.

A lot of software goes open source. So

you've got to really figure out why um

why you'll be able to maintain that

pricing power over time.

Yeah. Whoever's got the mic. uh what

were your initial strategies on user

engagement and customer retention

mainly for B2C companies? Sorry with

respect to as in like most of the

companies uh into B2C space uh the user

engagement is like really important. So

what were your it would be great if you

can give some suggestions on the user

engagement part. Yeah. Uh so the

question is about user engagement. Um, I

think you want to make sure that you're

measuring your the way you define users

in in terms of some sort of like active

or engaged number. You don't want to

just be looking at like total signups or

total registered users. Um, you want to

be looking at um the um the um sort of

recurrence rate and so you want to be

looking at like monthly active users or

DA user, WA, you know, weekly active

users or something like that. Um, one of

the things I think we did pretty well at

Yammer was start to apply all these

consumer techniques and metrics to an

enterprise product. So, we actually did

track our DAUs, WAUS, MAUs, U, we

tracked our one-day retention rate, um,

which is something. So we um we ran a

lot of AV tests like a consumer internet

company would and these ideas were all

pretty common place now but back then no

enterprise company was really using

these techniques. Um so the one day

retention rate is a really important

metric. It's basically just tells you

what percent of yesterday's users came

back the next day. And the reason why

that's really valuable is because you

can also look at what your one month

retention rate is. meaning how many of

last month's users came back this month.

But the 1-day retention rate and the

30-day retention rate are extremely

correlated. So, um directionally you

will know whether things are um going

well if you just look at the one-day

retention rate and obviously you can get

that data within 24 hours of launching a

new feature. So, you don't have to wait

30 days. So, we always looked at the one

day retention rate of um of any new

feature we we did. we were able to sort

of um we we would sort of run it against

a control and see whether it boosted the

the one day retention rate. Um I think

it's like a really useful technique.

So how do you measure the market need if

you're having uh if you're having a

totally original product in a total like

new space, right? Yeah. Well, I mean,

like I said, I mean, I'm not sure this

was top of mind for um you know, Mark

Zuckerberg when he created Facebook or

um or the the Twitter founders um when

they when they started Twitter. So, you

can sort of

um grope towards this, but nonetheless,

I think that and and I think it

certainly matters more on the enterprise

side than the consumer side. I mean the

consumer um internet at the these days

is really um about you launch a product

and then it gets like it's like a hit or

miss and like if it hits it gets crazy

traction and no one would have thought x

anti that there was a market for it and

then it somehow catched like sort of

Snapchat or something like that and it

catches fire and the founders have vague

intuitions about what the market need is

but it's not completely thought out. Um

on the enterprise side you really have

to think this through. You can't just

kind of wing it. You really have to

think about like who is going to pay for

the software? Like whose pain point are

we solving to the point where they're

willing to open up their wallet? And so,

you know, if that's your model, you

really have to think through this stuff.

Okay. So, you mentioned that Yammer was

acquired by Microsoft. Um, I'm sure

before that you guys had other offers.

What made you say no to those other

companies and finally yes to Microsoft?

When did you know that it would kind of

reach its big point?

Yeah. So um so I mean there there are a

bunch of reasons why the the Microsoft

deal happened. Um you know

fundamentally Yammer is a enterprise

social network. Um social networks need

killer apps and Microsoft has kind of

all the killer apps that we wanted to

integrate with in the enterprise. So

office, Skype, you know, link um you

know the list kind of goes on and on. So

it was a very attractive company for us

to be um part of in that sense. I also

think that culturally Microsoft is very

um engineering centric whereas a lot of

the other enterprise companies are very

sales centric and that was appealing to

us as well. Um, so you know, we just

thought that the opportunity for us to

kind of grow um what we were doing as

part of an integrated suite with these

killer apps was more attractive than

what we could do by ourselves. I mean,

that was sort of the fundamental thing.

Um, in terms of the the business terms,

I'm not, you know, saying anything that

wasn't sort of public at at the time,

but, you know, we had just raised a

funding round less than three months

before at, you know, less than half the

valuation. And so, we had a fresh

valuation to compare the offer against.

And so, in terms of getting our

investors aligned with wanting to do it,

um, sort of the numbers spoke for

themselves.

Hi. Uh, I'm from China. So, this

question is about copycat.

we have I think it's a very successful

copycat called Alip Pay uh I'm sure you

know that and it is uh developed by

ta.com which is the biggest online

shopping uh site in China and like many

years ago uh eBay also has its market in

China and Tao said we're going to beat

eBay out of China and at that time

everyone think it's a joke but they did

it like eBay has no market in China at

all like now. So what do you think of

Alip Pay? Because for me uh it has more

like features and is more convenient

than PayPal at least for you know people

in China. So what do you think of this

copycat? Well honestly I haven't used I

haven't used Alip Pay so I can't I can't

really speak to it. Um but based on what

you're saying it actually sounds like

it's not precisely a copycat in the

sense that you said it had a lot more

features. So, um, you know, I my guess

is that, um, they learn a lot from what

PayPal was doing, but they also had

their own ideas and that's sort of the

combination that that you want.

So, um, I'm curious to where you think

you said because everything's going

mobile, so where do you see the

distribution model kind of going now

that things are going mobile because

everything's changing. So, yeah. Um, so

yeah, I mean, one of the things I I've

kind of said is that um, the web is sort

of the long tale of applications you

haven't installed yet. I mean, it's

really kind of amazing that we're back

to the world of the desktop as opposed

to kind of, you know, there was this

belief, I think, in the 2000s that the

desktop was kind of withering away and

that everything would move into the

browser. And now we've gone 180 degrees

away from that where every all like sort

of the browser is withering and

everything's moving into applications.

Um the main difference between the

desktop of today versus the desktop of

the 90s is that there's a cloud back end

to it. Right? So before all the assets

were on the client. Now it's a shared

model where um there's some assets that

are on the the local device namely the

app sort of the graphics and the

framework but the data resides in the

cloud and that makes it super convenient

for you to get your data across multiple

devices and it's obviously perfectly in

sync and there's one copy and you don't

have to you know email file formats

around and all that sort of stuff. Um so

it's really interesting how the how the

model has changed. Um you know I think

that um it's always hard to specify in

advance exactly what distribution

techniques are necessary for the new

medium precisely because you have to be

innovative. So if I like figured this

all out then like probably it's too you

know what I mean it's like it's almost

like too late. You have to figure that

out for yourself. Now we can look at

what other people have done that's

successful and again that may work for

some period of time but eventually

that'll get tapped out too. I think to

me the trend right now that I see is

again what I've called

uberification which is the um slimming

down of application interfaces into push

button experiences that do one thing. I

need to get a ride. I push a button. A

car shows up. Um, if you can uber your

experiences so that they're slimmed

down, so that there's a like a single

call to action um that users want to

engage in repeatedly. Um, I mean, I

don't know how extensible this is. I

don't know how many things in the world

um that UI applies to, but that

certainly seems to be the zeicist right

now.

Okay. So, uh, yeah, this side. Hello.

Yeah.

Okay. So as entrepreneurs you know we

always keep hearing this fact that uh to

gauge market need and to see whether

this product market really needs this

product or not go and talk to customers

build a minimum viable product and see

whether people are really willing to and

looking forward to using something like

this. Do you have a refreshing take on

how entrepreneurs can probably gauge a

market need for a product or is it like

just the lean startup method go along

build and change and pivot pivot pivot

till the time you get the right fit? G

now I feel like I wasted your time and

that you already knew everything that I

was talking about. though um you know

um I guess you the lean startup

methodology makes a lot of sense in that

um it's very hard to predict Xanti

what's going to work and so I think what

I mean honestly you're doing in the

early stages is throwing spaghetti

against a wall and seeing what sticks I

mean you'd like to say that it's a

completely predictable process but it's

not I mean we're all constantly being

surprised by what works you know how

many people would have said that like

Snapchat would have brokeen out or or

some you know something like that and so

you know I would urge you to keep these

concepts in mind because I think they're

very important but at the on the other

hand this is not an analytical top- down

process it's an experimental bottom-up

process to figure out what works um now

I would say that and this might be a

little different than the lean startup

model is once you have a product that

starts getting traction I don't believe

in staying lean anymore I think you

should go fat And what I mean by that is

you should rapidly scale up. So, and the

reason is because you're going to have

all these copycats and they're going to

start eroding your market. And so, um,

one of the things we did with Yammer

that I think was pretty successful is,

um, let's tell you the the history. So,

when we founded the company, we were in

LA and for about the first year, we were

15 people and we started getting some

traction. We did about a million dollars

of enterprise sales in our first year.

And at the time I was thinking, you

know, gee, this is like really cool. We

could be profitable in just a few

months. And then we moved the company to

Silicon Valley and I became much more

aware of the competitive landscape. I

got the sense that Salesforce was going

to launch a competitor and I started

thinking, wait, why do we want to be

profitable? We need to grow. We need to

win this market. And so we then engaged

in a process of raising big financing

rounds about once a year for the next

three years. And um in fact one year we

did two financing rounds and we scaled

up the company um by the time we sold

the company to to um Microsoft just

three years later we had um over 400

employees and when by the time

Salesforce launched its product we were

at 200 employees. So if we had remained

that lean 15 person team I think a big

company like Salesforce would have

stopped us. But because we were able to

go fat once we saw that we had traction,

we built up some muscle, we had 200

people, half of those people were doing

sales, half were doing development, we

were able to withstand the assault. So I

think the lean store methodology is good

sort of in that experimental stage but

once you have something that works you

can't be afraid to pour gasoline on the

fire because I think the risk is not

typically

um that you're going to like somehow um

spin out of control that you're somehow

going to grow too fast or like raise too

much money but that rather that you're

not going to grow fast enough to seize

the opportunity you've created and that

Somehow everyone else in the market will

figure out that you figured something

out and they will rush to to copy

that. Um, first of all, thank

you. Um, I'm curious, you talked about

the secret sauce of PayPal and your

ability to innovate on product and

distribution. Can you talk a little bit

more

um about what that meant in terms of

your talent, your resources, um whatever

tools you use? Like what what was it

actually about your your team mix and

the skills that people brought to the

table in particular when it came to um

ability to um innovate on distribution?

Um, I I think it really came down to the

fact that we devoted the same sort of um

um time and thoughtfulness to

distribution as we did with a product

and that I think sometimes founders just

again they just assume that if they

build a good product the world will come

knocking at their door. I mean you know

the old line that if you build a better

mousetrap the world will you know come

you know knocking or whatever. I

actually don't think it's true. like I

don't think people can find the better

mouse trap. Um it's not sufficient just

to create one. You've got to figure out

how to bring it to market in a scalable

way. Um so you know I think we had

clearly there was something special

about the PayPal team. I think one of

the reasons for that is we never used

recruiters or head hunters in the early

days. The whole team was really um

recruited through friendship networks.

So, you know, Peter Teal who was a CEO,

I gone to college with him, he recruited

me, I recruited my friends and so on

down the line. Max love was a CTO, he

gone to U of I, he recruited his friends

from U of I. So because there were the

whole company was born out of these um

friend networks the people tended to be

cut from the same cloth was which was

again it was sort of this scrainess and

we kind of applied that um that sort of

scrainess to it's sort of this non

dogmatic approach just to figuring out

what works and this willingness to try

anything and that seems like a good

idea. Um and um that that just that

worked pretty well.

Um, but just I guess as a quick

followup, did you notice that there was

like anything particularly at the

tactical level that people knew about or

had backgrounds in that made them like

particularly good at growth?

Um, so back then I would say no because

none of us had a background in anything.

I mean, none of us done payments before.

No one had really done a startup before.

Um in fact um it was probably helpful we

didn't know anything about payments

because all the payments experts said

that what we did couldn't be done that

Visa Mastercard laws were rules would

prohibit it and so on. So sometimes it's

good to not be to be kind of ignorant of

you know conventional wisdom or because

it imposes constraints on what you think

you can do. Um but today what I would

say is you know all this thinking has

become much more um sort of um

institutionalized somehow. Now we have

these like growth hacker roles and so

on. Um I think those types of people can

be a useful um tool or sort of weapon in

your arsenal. So, it's very helpful to

be able to like again do these AB tests

where you know you can launch a feature

and see if it affects one day retention

or virality or something like that. But

I I feel like um and I think most people

realize that, but I think it's almost

gotten to the point now where people are

using this like math as a substitute for

really creative thinking about this

stuff and it's almost become like this

religion of testing and that I'm very

much against. Um, I really I like the

use of testing to sanity check uh what

the sort of the product founders um uh

believe. So you're not just running off

in some direction that is wrong and you

never correct. But I think that you

can't just leave it to the math people

or the analyst people to tell you what

to do because all they are doing really

is validating or refuting hypotheses.

they typically don't they're not the

ones typically that generate the

hypothesis. Sometimes you'll get like a

rare one who is like both um art and

science. Um but I think we've gotten to

the point now where we're like we

somehow think that this growth hacking

stuff is all about science and I think

it's much more about art. It's much more

about creatively generating a technique

that no one's thought of before. Thank

you.

Hey, I have two questions from the

online students. Um the first one is um

first student wants to know whether or

not you have any plans to make any

future or any future films produce any

future films and then the second um

wants to know um what were the benefits

and downfalls of being a consultant in

your early year early years versus

joining a startup. Okay. So, on the

movies, um, no plans right now. Um, but

I'll I'll keep you posted if, um, if I

change my mind. Um, on the, uh,

consulting thing. Um, so basically, um,

you guys are living in a great time in

in history. Um, because I graduated

from, uh, I graduated from college in

1994, was the year before the Netscape

IPO, which kind of launched the whole

internet as a commercial uh, force. And

by that point, I was in law school. I

graduated 98. I kind of thought I had

missed the whole web thing. And then um

and I and I I joined um a consulting

firm because I kind of had this vague

intuition that I wanted to do business,

not law, but um but I didn't know

exactly what I wanted to do. And um and

um and like the whole path to being an

entrepreneur back then was so much

harder. I mean, they didn't have

programs like this, you know, they

didn't have um all the resources that

are online to kind of um like the whole

lean startup movement, all that like

didn't exist. Blogging didn't even exist

really. I mean, that didn't start until

like the mid-200s. So, all the knowledge

sharing that's available now to help you

on your path to being an entrepreneur

wasn't there. And I really had no clue

how to get into it.

Uh, and being a consultant wasn't like

bad or anything, but then um Peter Teal

called me up and um convinced me to join

him um at PayPal and um so I quit my job

after about 10 months and and uh went to

go uh I never never kind of looked back

from from there.

So, I' I've been working really hard,

really long, on a bunch of great ideas.

I'm really excited about them, but now

I'm looking at uh Mark Andre in the New

York Times and everything that's been

happening the last year or so. Should I

throw out everything and just work on a

Bitcoin startup? How important is

Bitcoin?

Um, so,

um, so yeah, I mean, I Bitcoin is pretty

interesting. Um, I think the

technology is pretty amazing. Meaning

there's a real breakthrough around it

that I'm not sure like the people who

criticize it understand. And uh and and

the the um the innovation is that

Bitcoin is able to create centralized

authority without there being a central

authority in this completely bottomup

sort of crowdsource way. It's through

the blockchain, the open ledger of

transactions.

um that is new. So there have been

movements to create cryptocurrency

before. You know, PayPal is kind of it's

certainly a way to instantaneously

transfer money online, but you have to

rely on PayPal. And in all previous

attempts, there was some central

authority that you had to trust. Bitcoin

is completely decentralized and it's

been around long enough now that we can

say with pretty high confidence that um

that the Bitcoin protocol itself can't

be hacked. So the wallets, you know,

wallets can be hacked. Coins have been

stolen out of wallets, but no one's been

able to create a fake Bitcoin.

So, Bitcoin is the first way to um I

would say transfer a digital asset as

opposed to merely copying it. And that's

fundamentally new. Now, should you

create a a Bitcoin startup? I mean, I

think a couple issues there. Um the

first one is um I I actually bought

Bitcoin last year because I thought the

potential was great. um that doesn't

mean it's likely, but if it does work, I

think it's going to be really

transformative. So, you should just

understand that if you start a Bitcoin

startup, you not only have the risk of

your own startup whether that works, but

obviously you're dependent on Bitcoin

itself working and it's hard to assess

the probabilities.

Um, the second thing is, and this is

probably the bigger issue, is that by

the time a space is hot, it's frequently

too late. Like, you really want to um

get into a space before everyone thinks

it's like cool and and sexy. So, when

Yammer got to enterprise software in

2008, like nobody was doing it. I mean

one of the main reasons why we got it

why Yammer pursued enterprise social

networking is because nobody was doing

enterprise startups anymore and

certainly and because of that we thought

applying consumer DNA and viral

techniques and so on to the enterprise

could be really interesting. So I think

you can't just say I'm going to do a

Bitcoin startup. You've got to figure

out an idea that nobody else is doing

that you can really execute better. And

that might be hard now because frankly

there's people who got into it last

year. So I wouldn't want to discourage

you from doing a Bitcoin startup. I

would just be aware that it's a hot

space. So you better have some really

really interesting take.

If you had to start a startup today,

what would it

be? If I was going to do a startup

today, what would it Well, because you

mentioned already that we have to look

in like pretty much into the future. So,

think of something that it's going to

happen in the next like few years,

right?

Um it's really hard for me to say. Um I

guess I would choose a space that um I

feel has been overlooked in some way. Um

I would choose a space that is again is

kind of unsexy. no one's really talking

about it and yet it's kind of mystifying

why not given how big it is and um and

it could be a thing in a few years. I

try and be like two or three years ahead

of the curve. I think it's too hard to

see beyond that and in any event you

probably you know you don't want to be

too early. So I don't know that's not

like a great answer but um you know one

one thing you might want to consider is

I think this is the extent you're doing

business software is um is I think a lot

of the big horizontal plays have kind of

been done already. So meaning Salesforce

created a CRM layer for all types of

businesses. Yammer sort of social for

all business types there's marketing and

so on. I think those tools might be

tapped out. what's not tapped out are

vertical plays sort of industry specific

software. Um so you know for instance um

there's this company um Viva that IPOed

um in the last year one of the Yammer

investors was their first investor and

um they do CRM just for um health

sciences companies and it's got like a

multi-billion dollar valuation. So I

think it's still possible to do industry

specific things um that are interesting.

Uh but also but I wouldn't even

necessarily consider that idea terribly

original like emergence which is the

investor I'm talking about. They've had

that thesis now for a few years but um

but I think it's probably better than

doing something purely horizontal just

you know so that might help winnow down

the ideas.

I was just curious what kind of

industries get you really excited.

Um, you know, I don't have sort of rules

about this necessarily. Like, so for

instance, I would not have thought the

yellow cab industry would be exciting,

you know, but Uber gets me excited. I

use it like every day, you know, and

um you know, so I think really any

industry can be exciting if you've got

the right innovation to disrupt it. I I

don't think it's helpful for

entrepreneurs to have too many rules

about what industries they're willing to

do because I think that just closes off

your mind to possibilities. Um, and like

I said, I think given a choice between

doing something that nobody else is

thinking about and something that's like

the latest trend, I would always rather

do the thing that no one's really

thinking about because you're just going

to have less competition and it's less

kind of picked over. I mean, there's uh

the hot spaces are going to already have

lots of ideas being funded. So, um, I

try not to apply rules like that. One

thing I will say is that I do get

especially excited about products I

actually use.

So, one of the things I try to do is any

product that I actually use and love, I

will try to invest in. That's probably

like my main criteria for investing is

if I myself am a user and if somehow it

can get on page one of my like iPhone

apps, then it's like, you know, back up

the truck, you know, can I put all my

money in this company? Because, you

know,

um, you know, I'm willing to believe

that if if I'm if I love the product

that other people will, too. And that's

probably like the main thing I look at

these days.

All right. Thanks for having me.

Appreciate

[Applause]

it. up. Stretch. If you need to use the

bathroom, use the bathroom. We're going

to be back here at 11:05. Okay. For our

next presentation.

Yes.

The bathroom is right through that back

door over there. The women's is on the

left and then the men's is walk two

clicks and it's on your left as well.